Or onto named locations in GIT History.
This is effectively me saying tags, right?
I call it a named location
because it's not a branch,
because a tag is an immutable
point in history.
Unlike a branch, branches you update,
you make commits to, they move all around.
A tag is an immutable
point in your Git history.
And so the best way to think
about it is that it has all
the setup of a branch just
without changeability.
How to use tags?
Very easy if you've never used tags.
Simply do git tag, the name of the tag you
want to create, git take delete if you
wanna delete it, git take the list amount,
git checkout a tag name and
you'll check out a tag as if
it were a branch except for
you're just checking out a SHA and so
you'll be in a detached head state.
So kind of fun stuff.
I go through the various operations here.
We'll do this one right here.
I think this one's really interesting
tags also show up in the log so
long as us decorate with decorates
like your default option if
you create it Tag git tag foobar,
and I go git log.
You'll see right here, it also shows up so
you know which one you're looking at.
So if you're trying to look for
a specific version, this is fantastic.
You can pull tags with
git pull dash dash tags.
So it's just like working
with branches effectively,
you can push tags with git push dash dash
tags will push tags up to to an endpoint.
There you go.
That's pretty much everything about tags.
I'm gonna largely kind of skip this
version because I don't think... I've said
everything about it there's not you know,
we kind of know at this
point how to use branches.
I've been using them all day.
You understand tags inherently right any
questions on tags that is now they're put
Pretty straightforward, right?
>> Yeah, merge them back and forth.
>> You just can't change them.
>> Yeah, That's it.
>> That's it.
All right.
My favorite tool to use is fugitive.
So that's gonna give you
a little quick look.
I don't I mean, I use the command line
like maybe half the time the other half
the time I use fugitive.
It's pretty dang awesome so far.
If I go in here, add a new line.
This is my unstaged changes, right?
I can stage them, I can put them into that
I can unstage them, I can remove them.
It's very, very nice to be able to
have those kinda fast usages of Git.
I think it just makes life a little bit
nicer, especially as you get good at it.
Let's see, right here and
let's do one more thing.
Just to make it nice, you can.
It allows you to do commit messages right
in your editor, which is also fantastic.
I like that and it also allows if
there was an upstream to push to here,
let's go down to.
Let's go to what's called remote-git.
I can also go in here, and
I can also push if I want to.
So if I press Enter now It's gonna go push
this up to remote it's not going to work
because we may change to hello-git and
there's problems we have to resync, but
I can do that if I want to.
I can also jump in here.
Go into here and I can ZZZ it.
It's now stashed ZZA and it's unstashed,
it's kind of nice to be able to do
that it's easy to rebase. If I
really wanted to hit it with the old R,
I know do something on
I have some on stage.
Right?
I can go in here and
let's not do that one.
There we go and
I can go give it the old Ri and go s.
There we go.
I've now just did an interactive
rebase just change it to one commit.
So having a good tool to be able to
work with Git is worth a whole bunch So
whatever tool you use, I hope well, first
off, Vim's fantastic if you don't use Vim.
But if you don't use it and you use
that other editor, just learn the tool.
I think it's Git Lens, right?
And if you get really good at it,
it can just save a whole bunch of time.
And the thing that really makes
this stuff really good isn't,
it's the reason why I
didn't go over diffs.
It's really pretty much in this course.
I don't think diffs are good to
look at on the command line.
I don't think they're enjoyable.
I don't think there's any,
I don't think anyone here is gonna
wanna resolve a conflict by hand.
We all want the ability to,
look at the change like this, right?
Where you have one side and
the other side, and
you get to choose which
side you want to use.
And so, I largely don't think that
that kind of stuff is useful.
That's why we didn't.
We didn't go over it.
And so please, if you're not using a tool
and you're resolving conflicts by hand,
learn the tool.
It'll make your life like ten times better
because they can be a real big pain
in ass the if you try to
do everything by hand.